[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: The issue that I
have right now with the application,
which will be labeled exercise seven,
is to update the TODO list when
a new TODO is added via web socket.
The way that the view
application works right now is
it appears that TODO items are added
to the database in real time.
But really what happens is
we add them to an array.
The array gets rendered
in our interface and
then we make a request of the server which
actually persists it onto the database.
So the challenge that I would
like to pose for all of you is to
create a socket connection between
the TODO client and the server.
And whenever a new TODO is added, and
right now we just do it for,
we can do it for an ADD.
If you want to try to implement it for
an update too that's totally fine.
But we won't immediately
add the TODO list item
to the array associated
with the view component.
We'll actually make
a request to the server,
save it in the database like we are right
now and then when the TODO list item has
been successfully saved, we will
omit from the server to the client.
Containing the saved to do list item
which then will be added to the array and
then represented in our user interface.
So what it'll be only when the TODO
list item has actually been persisted
that it will be displayed
in the user interface,
which hopefully should be pretty
close to pretty close to real time.
So after lunch we're going
to take a crack at that.
And yeah, that should be a good time and
give you a chance to dig
into Socket IO a little bit.
The challenge here is going to be how
you structure your Socket IO code.
So right here we kind of have
everything in the same file and
access to the HTP server and
all that jazz.
But generally speaking that's not
the way you're gonna wanna handle
it in your application.
So much as we have this
web app.js file which kind
of creates a reusable express application,
we're probably gonna wanna create another
file which manages Socket.IO related data.
As a little bit of a spoiler probably what
you're gonna wanna do is in a module,
create an object which exports one
function which is a connection
handler which will be used
by the socket server.
So if I bring up this simple connection or
the simple example,
you probably wanna create a module
which has this function which will
be called every time a new socket
connects to the application.
That module,
for the sake of argument should probably
create like a global registry of sockets,
of all the sockets there are currently
connected to the system.
And then that module should probably
have another function which will allow
the controllers to omit messages to
all the currently connected sockets.
So you're gonna be creating a common
JS module that exports two functions.
One is going to handle incoming socket
connections and the other is gonna be used
by controllers to emit messages to
the currently connected sockets.
And again,
because that's a decent amount of code I
thought I would at least prime the pump
a little bit with what I think would
probably be a reasonable implementation.
So I will break now for lunch and
then we'll take another half hour on
top of that to tackle the challenge.
And then we'll come back and
look at the solution at 1:30
along with the UJS solution.
>> Speaker 2: I've got
a kinda quick question.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: It seems like the whole
socket IO kind of a template is
much cleaner than messaging
then a restful interface.
What's the tradeoff between them.
I know in socket I was a lot faster.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Between a restful
interface and a socket connection I mean,
it's kind of about the kind of
client that you expect to connect.
It's possible to do authentication
with web socket connections,
if that's something you wanna do.
But yeah,
I mean there's other than exposing
an API that can be used by all kinds of
clients like not every kind of client can
create a socket connection to your server.
And like do create read update
to the operations that way
having a restful interface
is probably more accessible.
But yeah you could certainly architect
your system in such a way where most of
your average credit operations
happen over a Web socket.
>> Speaker 2: If you're
controlling both ends of the pipe
sockets would be more efficient.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Potentially yeah.
It's certainly is faster.
But the support for like authentication
especially is a little more fit only
with web sockets than it is with Rest.
With Rest you have cookies where
you can store authentication tokens
and by default you don't get that
with a web socket connection.
There are other modules you can use
to get that type of functionality.
There's no reason why you couldn't
implement a lot of your services
over WebSockets if you wanted to.